docs: dev/hardware: update hardware support documentation (#2458)
freifunk-gluon/gluon: docs/dev/hardware.rst

Adding hardware support
=======================
This page will give a short overview on how to add support
for new hardware to Gluon.

Hardware requirements
---------------------
Having an ath9k, ath10k or mt76 based WLAN adapter is highly recommended,
although other chipsets may also work. VAP (multiple SSID) support

> with simultaneous AP + Mesh Point (802.11s) operation required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with simultaneous AP + Mesh Point (802.11s) operation is required.
```

Device checklist
----------------
The description of pull requests adding device support must include the
`device integration checklist
<https://github.com/freifunk-gluon/gluon/wiki/Device-Integration-checklist>`_.
The checklist ensures that core functionality of Gluon is well supported on the
device.

.. _device-class-definition:

Device classes
--------------
All supported hardware is categorized into "device classes". This allows to
adjust the feature set of Gluon to the different hardware's capabilities via
``site.mk`` without having to list individual devices.

There are currently two devices classes defined: "standard" and "tiny". The
"tiny" class contains all devices that do not meet the following requirements:

- At least 7 MiB of usable firmware space
- At least 64 MiB of RAM (128MiB for devices with ath10k radio)

Target configuration
--------------------
Gluon's hardware support is based on OpenWrt's. For each supported target,
a configuration file exists at ``targets/<target>-<subtarget>`` (or just
``target/<target>`` for targets without subtargets) that contains all

> Gluon-specific setup for the target. The generic configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gluon-specific settings for the target. The generic configuration
```

``targets/generic`` contains settings that affect all targets.

> When adding a new target, it must be listed in ``target/targets.mk``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All targets must be listed in ``target/targets.mk``.
```

extensions. ``factory_ext`` can be set to a table of strings to account for this
case:

.. code-block:: lua

  {
    factory_ext = {'.img.gz', '.vmdk', '.vdi'},
  }

TODO: Extra images

Aliases and manifest aliases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sometimes multiple devices exist that use the same OpenWrt images. To make it
easier to find these images, the ``aliases`` setting can be used to define
additional device names. Gluon will create symlinks for these names in the
image output directory.

.. code-block:: lua

  device('aruba-ap-303', 'aruba_ap-303', {
    factory = false,
    aliases = {'aruba-instant-on-ap11'},
  })

The aliased name will also be added to the autoupdate manifest, allowing upgrade
images to be found under the different name on targets that perform model name
detection at runtime.

It is also possible to add alternative names to the autoupdater manifest without
creating a symlink by using ``manifest_aliases`` instead of ``aliases``, which
should be done when the alternative name does not refer to a separate device.
This is particularly useful to allow the autoupdater to work when the model name
changed between Gluon versions.

Package lists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Gluon generates list of packages that are installed in all images based on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gluon generates lists of packages that are installed in all images based on a
```
